# roob1090 monorepo

### Overview

`roob1090` (an amalgamation of `roob`, my username, and `1090`, the frequency over which aircraft broadcast ADS-B signals) is a stack for harvesting and aggregating ADS-B data.

**A live demo of the entire `roob1090` stack in action can be seen on my [personal website](https://www.robsteilberg.io/).** You can also directly hit the API at [aircraft.robsteilberg.io](https://aircraft.robsteilberg.io); see [aircraft.robsteilberg.io/boards/kdca](https://aircraft.robsteilberg.io/boards/kdca) to see the current board of aircraft movements for KDCA, or [aircraft.robsteilberg.io/aircraft/valid](https://aircraft.robsteilberg.io/aircraft/valid) to see all valid aircraft currently being tracked.
 
`roob1090` contains three packages and one submodule:

1. `dump1090` is a program originally written by [anitrez](https://github.com/antirez) and maintained by FlightAware that parses ADS-B signals received through an antenna into readable JSON. `roob1090` uses [FlightAware's fork of dump1090](https://github.com/flightaware/dump1090). It is included as a [git submodule](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules) and contains some custom scripts for running `dump1090`. See its [README](./packages/dump1090/README.md) for details.
2. `pump1090` is a Rust program that reads a JSON dumpfile generated by `dump1090` and sends it to a WebSocket endpoint. See its [README](./packages/pump1090/README.md) for details.
3. `serve1090` is an `express` Node application that scaffolds a server for receiving data through a WebSocket, aggregating and processing it, exposing an API to retrieve it, and broadcasting it via WebSocket to clients. See its [README](./packages/serve1090/README.md) for details.
4. `piTemp` is a Python script for monitoring the core temperature of a Raspberry Pi running Buster or a related distribution of Raspbian. See its [README](./packages/piTemp/README.md) for details.

### Monorepo installation

1. `git clone git@github.com:robertsteilberg/roob1090.git`
2. `git submodule init`
3. `git submodule update` will fetch `dump1090`
4. Follow the individual READMEs for each package to initialize the dependent environment variables

### Remarks

I created this stack as a personal exercise to achieve the following goals, in descending order of importance:

1. As someone who lives next to and with a direct view of Washington Reagan National Airport, I wanted to be able to see an aircraft landing or taking off and immediately know its flight number, origin or destination, aircraft type, and other information without consulting/paying for a public API
2. Record and analyze flight trends into and out of DCA and the surrounding airspace
3. Take up ADS-B flight tracking as a hobby and contribute to the flight tracking community by sending data to aggregates like FlightAware
4. Learn Rust and Raspberry Pi
5. Build a "full stack" application that harvests data and exposes an API and hone my back-end development skills
6. Develop software for something other than my full-time job

This stack should require minimal development to make it useful for any airspace or airport other than DCA; details on how to do this are included in the `serve1090` [README](./packages/pump1090/README.md).
