# pump1090

### Overview

`pump1090` is a simple Rust program that provides one function: it reads and parses dumpfile JSON files generated by `dump1090` and pipes them to a specified WebSocket endpoint. That's it.

Theoretically, `pump1090` could work with any server with a WebSocket endpoint that doesn't need authentication, but was designed to work with [serve1090](https://github.com/robertsteilberg/roob1090/tree/master/packages/serve1090) within the [roob1090](https://github.com/robertsteilberg/roob1090) stack.

`piaware` is a better-known and feature complete example of software that does the exact same thing, but `piaware` runs on Debian-like Linux only and is specifically made to send dumpfile data to FlightAware. `piaware` and `pump1090` will run just fine in concert.

This program would probably have been much easier to write in Python or some other scripting language, but where's the fun in that? It was a nice introduction to learning Rust.

### Arguments

`pump1090` needs three inputs to operate properly. It will first check for a `.env` file containing the necessary arguments, will next check for command line arguments, and will finally use the default values specified in the source code.

| Name | Description | .env var name | CLI arg name | Default value |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|--------------------|----------------------------|
| Device ID | A string identifying the machine on which `pump1090` is running | `DEVICE_ID` | `-s, --id` | `undefined` |
| Serve1090 secret | Secret for the serve1090 instance accepting the dumpfile data | `SERVE1090_SECRET` | `-s, --secret` | `undefined` |
| Dumpfile path | Path to the JSON file generated by dump1090 | `DUMPFILE_PATH` | `-d`, `--dumpfile` | `data/aircraft.sjon` |
| WebSocket endpoint | URL of the WebSocket endpoint to send dump1090 data | `WS_ENDPOINT` | `-e, --endpoint` | `ws://localhost:3000/pump` |

### Implementation notes

`pump1090` is relatively resilient against failure. It will automatically attempt to establish a connection with the WebSocket endpoint every 5 seconds. If connection with the endpoint is lost during the pumping process, `pump1090` will re-enter the "establish" mode, retrying the endpoint until a successful connection is made.

There is no file watching structure in place--the dumpfile is automatically parsed and piped to the endpoint every half second. File watching proved to be very complicated to implement with resilience, especially across the Linux/Darwin platforms and cross-platform support for things like `fsevents`, with marginal performance gain.
